this has been a very slow going project
that started last summer when I got the
idea to build a rover that would just
permanently live out our flight testing
field and automatically drive around
whenever its solar panels were producing
enough power to do so here's a build
compilation with all the trial and error
along the way all right so here we are
cutting steel for the frame then welding
it together
so much grinding so much welding got
some 5/8 inch bolts for the axles the
steel frame is totally overkill and I
probably would have made out of
something else if I were doing this
again not my 10 inch hardware great
tires on there we there I go I decided
to use these brushless gear motors which
was a bad idea they come with these
little is CS built in but they take a
normal PWM signal to control not a servo
style PWM signal so I removed the ESC
and soldered extensions directly onto
the phase wires and I connected those to
a hobby ESC which seems to work well I
built a little sliding chain tensioner
here which didn't work my initial plan
was to have one mode or per side so two
motors total after that I tried a
spring-loaded chain tensioner which
didn't work either for some reason I
kind of forget why after that I went
with one motor per wheel which worked a
lot better they could drive around
pretty well at this point but there were
still some issues
[Music]
the rover doesn't really have enough
power to turn and also I've got this
multi rotary SC which it doesn't do
reverse so it can't do true skid steer
where one set of tires goes forward and
the other side goes backwards so to make
it turn a little better I'm going to cut
it in half and shorten the wheelbase a
little bit yeah she's a little shorter
now I shortened it by I don't know maybe
three inches should turn a little better
what do you think hi doggie are you it
sort of turns it looks so much better
too the only reason that one wheel
spinning us for this dragon braking
[Music]
it turns pretty well on the smooth floor
and I also enabled breaking on the es CS
so that helps next I put a flight
controller on it I ended up having to
mount the GPS out on a board to get the
compass away from the steel frame as it
was causing too much magnetic
interference at this point it was sort
of able to do waypoint missions but it
still didn't turn very well I also
realized that having a rigid frame
wasn't great because only three wheels
were contacting the ground most of the
time at that point I decided to cut it
in half yet again and give it
articulating suspension but without
Springs or anything like that just
articulation after that I put the flight
controller electronics back on and went
out to the field for some tuning it was
running Waypoint mission's decently well
which is pretty amazing considering how
much GPS position noise there is it was
at this point that I realized my
wheelbarrow tires had insufficient
traction on wet grass so I added these
3d printed pieces of plastic here to the
tires to give it more traction because
when I tested without those last time it
was getting stuck and the tires were
just spinning on the ground in the wet
grass so now with these things every
rotation the tire will kind of unstick
itself if it's stuck oh oh I might have
just gotten stuck oh wait the tread
things are going oh yeah there we go see
it'll get stuck and then the tread
things will rotate around give it more
traction and it'll keep going so I'm
gonna leave and go work on other stuff
and then come back later and see if it's
still doing its thing this video is
sponsored by PCB way a full service and
custom PCB prototyping service they
offer instant quotes quick turn
fabrication low volume production and
more check them out at PCB Wacom again
thank you to PCB way for sponsoring this
video have you ever wanted to make your
electronics projects look more
professional or are you a small business
that needs a low-cost quick turn PCB
fabrication if so check them out at PCB
UA
calm their website has an instant quote
feature so you can get started fast also
check out this great video on how PCB
manufacturing works thanks again to PCB
way I did another all-day test run it's
about 5:30 in the evening now and I
started this thing at 9 o'clock in the
morning and I'm pleased to see that it's
still going that's fantastic
this is great this is awesome it doesn't
stop it just keeps going if we take a
look at this voltage regulator we're
down to twenty three point one volts and
I'm running this off of three Eve nine
amp our 6l lipos which are all very old
and puffy and the voltage has not
dropped that much over the course of the
entire day so that goes to show that
this thing does not consume very much
power at all which is going to be a huge
benefit when we are running it off solar
power after that I sprayed some clear
coat stuff on the frame and wood to
prevent rust and then I started making a
solar panel mounts out of stock aluminum
and some old prototype drone parts so
we've got the Sun we've got the rover
I've got a big 16 amp hour 3 cell
battery in there got a GoPro on the
front powered off a big power bank so
that it can run longer I made a stronger
GPS mast mounted the charge controller
up here and last but not least we've got
our solar cells so we are ready to test
this thing out I just uploaded the
Waypoint mission and put it in auto mode
seems to be doing well so far
definitely not gonna sit around and
watch this thing all day so I'm going to
work by
[Music]
it's about 2 p.m. and the rover appears
to have dug itself a hole and it's stuck
it doesn't look like it got caught on
anything specific it kind of looks like
it was just turning and the wheels on
the far side were trying to spin the
wheels on the near side were not because
it was turning this way and it just
didn't have enough traction to pull
around this ground here is really soft
and mossy so that's probably what did it
once I started it back up this motor
stopped spinning for a little while and
then I had the power cycle and now it
works again so it seems maybe this motor
ESC combination is not as reliable as I
would like it to be that kind of looks
like ok it's about 6 p.m. let's see
what's up oh we got a stick look at that
or a vine a thorn vine looks like it
just kind of dug itself another hole and
yeah this this gear is definitely
stripped I was actually surprised
earlier when I first realized that motor
was stripped I started it on the mission
again and it actually did like a lap or
two before getting stuck here so
surprised it actually did pretty well
with only three wheels but it's
obviously not working as well as it
should so it needs some work I'm gonna
throw it in the car take it home and
figure out what my next move is here
upon inspecting the faulty gear motor it
appeared that gear didn't actually strip
but one of the axles that the gears were
attached to came out of its mounting
hole and this caused the gear teeth to
separate I still think I was probably
overloading these little gear boxes so
upgrading them wouldn't be a bad idea
for the next gear motor design I decided
to go with these super cheap Barbie Jeep
motors they spin too fast alone so I
designed an additional 3d printed
cycloidal gear box with a 13 to one
reduction ratio that goes in series with
the Barbie Jeep gearbox
I chose the cycloidal gear design simply
because it is super cool an episode 2 of
this series I'll be adding the Sukhoi
drive to the rover and seeing if it
works thanks for watching bye